---
title: Conclusion of the NRC
layout: post
summary: Today we concluded the  19th Meeting of New Researchers in Statistics and Probability.
author: Daniel Sussman
---

Today we concluded the  19th Meeting of New Researchers in Statistics and Probability.
The IMS New Researchers Group would first and foremost like to thank the organizers, Vince Lyzinski and Elizabeth Ogburn,  who ensured that the conference ran seamlessly and featured an all-star line-up of speakers and panelists.
This was also made possible by the great volunteers from the JHU Applied Math and Statistics Department and the Biostatistics Department, including Lu Li, Bonnie Smith, Parichoy Pal Choudhury, Youjin Lee, Keith Levin, and Linda Gai.
We also want to thank the excellent speakers and panelists who gave fascinating technical talks and spurred stimulating discussions on the issues facing new researchers.
Additionally, we want to thank the generous sponsors, the NSF, NIH, ONR, and Google.


Last but not least, we want to express our thanks to all the new researchers who participated in the conference.
Without your enthusiasm and dedication to the field, this conference could never be what it is.
We hope that for many of you this will be the beginning of relationships that will span for your entire career. As we heard in both the Future of Statistics panel and the Collaborations panel, the participants of this conference are the future of statistics and only through working together diligently will they ensure that that future is bright.

Finally, the IMS New Researchers Group itself is still in its infancy. The goal of this group is to continue to foster the relationships formed at meetings like this one to provide resources to ensure that your careers continue to flourish. We are always happy to hear about new ideas about how we can do this.
We are also looking for volunteers to help provide resources and organize gatherings of new researchers.

We hope everyone has a wonderful time at JSM or wherever else they are headed and we are looking forward to the 20th NR meeting to be hosted in Vancouver by Simon Fraser University.